---
layout: post
title: "Lighttpd: 422 (Unprocessable Entity) and ActiveResource"
author: Alex Young 
categories:
- technical
- programming
- sysadmin
- ruby
- rails
---

Recently we deployed an internal server that works using ActiveResource to share objects between our applications.  All my tests ran, and eventually I deployed the service.  The tests ran on the server. I took a night off and got loads of wine and pizza.

However, after a few days I noticed *errors weren't being received from the server*.  I tore my hair out checking everything even down to the versions of the server software and libraries.  Then I noticed: when I ran the application with webrick it returned errors and ActiveResource objects correctly displayed error messages.

I then went on a huge lighttpd/fcgi/rails/activeresource search engine hunt and found nothing.  After getting a friend in to help, we discovered that it looked like *lighttpd wasn't responding with the full body when responding with 422 (Unprocessable Entity)*.

We even checked the source, and eventually found:

* http://trac.lighttpd.net/trac/ticket/1412
* http://trac.lighttpd.net/trac/browser/trunk/src/connections.c

So if you're tearing your hair out with ActiveResource and lighttpd it looks like there is a problem with lighttpd.  We're now running the service off mongrel for the time being.

*Update* Lighttpd just updated to 1.4.20, and this was in the patch notes:

bq. Allow all http status codes by default; disable body only for 204,205 and 304; generate error pages for 4xx and 5xx (#1639)


